Hi, welcome back.
In this video, we're going to be creating our
first HTML file and retuning that to
our users instead of a simple string.
When you create a Flask app,
Flask starts looking for a templates folder.
So, we're gonna create a new directory and call it,
templates, and that has to be beside app.py.
So in the same folder as app.py is,
okay notice how these are both in the same folder.
Now, you can tell app.py, your Flask app,
to return some HTML file that is
inside this templates folder.
First of all, we're gonna create our
HTML file and then we're going to return it.
So, we're gonna create a new file.
We're gonna call it, POST.HTML, for example.
This can contain any HTML you want.
So let's start with some basic HTML.
All HTML has to have a DOCTYPE of HTML that says that it
is HTML five, and then you can have a head
and a body.
And in the body you can have your HTML content.
So this is essentially, the basic HTML structure,
tells the browser receiving the file that this is an
HTML file and then it has the HTML content inside it.
There's a head, which can include things like styles
and java script and things like that,
things the user's not going to see,
but that can change the page.
And in the body, is the things the user will see.
So here in the body, we can put,
for example, h1, Hello, world.
And then we can have a p tag which is a paragraph tag,
saying like, This is my first post, for example.
Now we've got this post dot HTML file.
We can go back to app.py, and tell our end point, here,
this root, to render that template
and return it to the user.
We're going to have to import something else from Flask.
We're going to do from Flask,
import Flask, comma render_template.
Then, instead of returning this string here,
we're going to return, render_template of post.HTML.
Okay, notice how we've not used our
POST variable at all, yet.
We're gonna do that in just a moment.
For now, let's run the app and make
sure that this is all working.
So the app all runs fine.
And if we go over to the URL we had before
and we refresh the page, now you can see
that it looks a little bit different.
We've now got a heading, which is this
larger bit of text, that says, Hello, world.
And we've got, This is my first post, in a paragraph.
This is looking a bit better, because now this is
a HTML file, as opposed to just a string
that's coming through from our server.
Going back to PyCharm, now we can stop the app,
hide it away, and go back to here.
And now we'll use our post to make sure that we're
displaying this information in our page,
instead of the static contents of our HTML page.
Inside an HTML page that is rendered with Flask,
we can actually include variables.
For example, we can include post title.
And notice how I've used double curly braces,
then I've used this as if it were a dictionary,
and then I've done the two closing curly braces.
Jinja2 is built upon Python and it
has a lot of the same syntax.
So what we're doing here is we're going to pass this
template a dictionary called, POST,
and the template is going to be able to replace
this for whatever it is that this evaluates to.
The POST title, most likely.
Similarly here,
POST content.
Now, this template is going to look at the
POST variable and try to get the title and the content
from it in order to render the template with those.
But of course, we must give it the POST
variable that it's going to look for.
So inside render_template, after the template name,
we can pass a named arguments, like so.
This POST named argument will become this POST here.
And this POST here, is of course the value of the argument
which is what we've retrieved from our in memory data base.
To make things simpler, we could just
delete that, and put it there.
And that way, we're saying the POST in the template
is going to be this value, posts.get of post_id.
And what's gonna happen is we're gonna retrieve that
from our database, we're gonna pass it
to the template with the name, POST.
The template can then use this name inside
it to access properties and replace content.
Let's run the app again.
By the way, as an aside, remember to stop your
app every time you want to do something else.
Flask does not work well if you forget to stop the app.
Okay? Just remember to stop it.
I've not mentioned this before.
My apologies.
Remember to stop your app after every time
that you want to restart it, because if not,
it won't let you, because the app is
using this number, 5,000, for communication.
And if you try to start the app twice,
both will try to use the same number to
communicate and they won't like that.
So make sure to stop your app,
every time, and then restart it.
Now going back to Chrome, we can refresh the
page and notice how it's gonna change very slightly.
Now it says, This is my first blog post.
As opposed, This is my first post, what I said before.
That's because this content now,
is coming from here, our dictionary.
Stopping the app again, and hiding that.
This is because here we are now passing this
information to the template so that it can
render it before sending it back to the browser.
This is really important, because now we can embed things
into a template, make it look not only nice,
but also make it include the information
we want from our Python programmes.
Over the next few videos, we're going to look at
extend link's functionality and also, of course,
adding new posts so that the programme
can become more and more dynamic.
And I'll see you on the next video.